What is harder to solve vision or language,
visual intelligence or linguistic intelligence.
So I'm going to say computer vision is harder.
My reason for this is basically that, uh,
language of course has a big structure to it because we developed it. Uh,
whereas vision is something that is common in a lot of animals.
Everyone is able to get by.
A lot of these animals on earth are actually able to get by without language
mm-hmm <affirmative>. And we, a lot of these animals,
we also deem to be intelligent. So clearly intelligence, uh,
does have like a visual component to it. And yes, of course,
in the case of humans, it, of course also has a linguistic component,
but it means that there is something far more fundamental about vision than
there is about language. And I'm sorry to anyone disagrees, but yes,
this is what I feel.
So that's being a little bit reflected in, um,
the challenges that have to do with the,
the progress of self supervised learning. Would you say,
or is that just the peculiar accidents of the progress of the AI community
that we focused on Lang or we discovered self attention and transformers in the
context of language for.
So like the self supervised learning success was actually, uh,
for vision has not much to do with the transformers part.
I would say it's actually been independent a little bit.
I think it's just that the signal was a little bit different for, uh,
vision than there was for like NLP and probably NLP. Yeah. Folks, uh,
discovered it before. So for vision,
the main success has basically been in this like crops so far mm-hmm,
<affirmative> like taking different crops of images. Uh, whereas for NLP,
it was this masking thing, but.
Also the level of success is still much higher for language. Yes.
It has. So that has a lot to do with, I mean,
I can get into a lot of details for this particular question. Let's go for it.
Okay. So the first thing is language is very structured.
So you are going to produce a distribu over a finite vocabulary.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> English has a finite number of words.
It's actually not that large. Uh,
and you need to produce basically when you're doing this masking thing,
all you need to do is basically tell me which one of these like 50,000 words it
is. Yeah. That's it now for vision, let's imagine doing the same thing. Okay.
We are basically going to blank out a particular part of the image and we ask
the network or this neural to predict what is present in this missing patch.
It's combinatory large, right? You have 256 pixel values.
If you're even producing basically a seven cross seven or a 14 cross 14,
like window of pixels at each of these 169 or each of these 49
locations, you have 256 values to predict. Yeah. And so it's really,
really large and very quickly the kind of like prediction problems that
we are setting up are going to be extremely like intractable for us.
And so the thing is for NLP,
it has been really successful because we are very good at predicting,
like doing this like distribution over a finite set.
And the problem is when this set becomes really large, we are,
we are going to become really,
really bad at making these predictions and at solving basically this particular
set of problems. Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
So if you were to do it exactly in the same way as NLP for vision,
there is very limited success.
The way stuff is working right now is actually not by predicting these masks.
It's basically by saying that you take these two, like crops from the image,
you get a feature representation from it.
And just saying that these two features,
so they're like vectors just saying that the distance between these vectors
should be small. And so it's a very different way of learning, uh,
from the visual signal, then there is from NLP. Okay.
The other reason is the distribution hypothesis that we talked about for NLP,
right? So a word given its context,
basically the context actually supplies a lot of meaning to the word mm-hmm
<affirmative> now, because there are just finite number, finite number of words.
And there is a finite way in like, which we compose them.
Of course the same thing, hold for pixels,
but in language there's a lot of structure, right?
So I always say whatever the dash jumped over the fence, for example,
there are lots of these sentences that you'll get. And from this,
you can actually look at this particular sentence might occur in a lot of
different context as well.
This exact same sentence might occur in a different context.
So the sheep jumped over the fence, the car jumped over the fence, it talk,
jumped over the fence. So you immediately get a lot of these words, which are,
because this particular token itself has so much meaning you get a lot of these
tokens or these words, which are actually going to have a,
have sort of this related meaning across given this context.
Whereas for vision it's much harder because just by like pure,
like the way we capture images, lighting can be different. Um,
there might be like different noise and the sensor.
So the thing is you're capturing a physical phenomenon.
And then you're basically going through a very complicated pipeline of like
image processing.
And then you're translating that into some kind of like digital signal mm-hmm
<affirmative> whereas with language you write it down and you transfer it to a
digital signal, almost like it's a lossless like transfer.
And each of these tokens are very, very well. If find there.
Could be a little bit of an argument there because language as written down
is a projection of thought,
this is one of the open questions is if you perfectly can solve
language, are you getting close to being able to solve, you know,
easily with flying colors, past the touring test kind of thing. Right?
So that's, it's similar, uh, but different. And, uh,
the computer vision problem is in the 2d plane is a projection of a three
dimensional world. So perhaps there's similar, uh, uh, similar problems there,
maybe.
This, I think what I'm saying is NLP is not easy. Of course don't get me wrong.
Like I abstract thought expressed in knowledge, uh,
or knowledge basically expressed in language is really hard to understand,
right? I mean, we've been communicating with language for so long and it's,
it is of course a very complicated concept. The thing is, uh,
at least getting like some somewhat reasonable, um,
like being able to solve some kind of reasonable tasks with language, I,
I would say slightly easier than it is with computer vision.
Yeah. I would say, yeah, so that that's well put,
I would say getting impressive performance on language is, uh,
easier there. I feel like for both language and computer vision,
there's going to be this wall of like that you like, uh,
this hump you have to overcome to achieve superhuman level performance or human
level performance. And I feel like for language, it, that wall is farther away.
So you can get pretty nice. You can, you can do a lot of tricks.
You can show really performance. You can even fool people that you're,
uh, tweeting or you're right. Blog, post writing, or your question answering,
uh, is, has intelligence behind it.
But to truly demonstrate understanding of dialogue,
uh, of continuous long form dialogue that would require perhaps
big breakthroughs in the same way, way in computer vision.
I think the big breakthroughs need to happen earlier to, to achieve, uh,
impressive performance.